# 2. CEFI & DEFI

## **1 What is Cefi?**

CeFi \(Centralized Finance\) is a traditional or centralized finance, in which components such as the organization, the trading market, or the tools are centrally managed.

In centralized finance is always accompanied by the phrase "custodial" or trust, ie assets, products and services in finance will be entrusted to certain organizations.

For example: If we send money to the bank \(loan to the bank\), the money is entrusted to the holding bank.

In centralized finance includes the following components:

• Organizations: They can be governments, central banks, private banks, funds, financial services, hedge funds, retirement funds ...

• Markets: Exchanges such as New York stock exchange, NASDAQ ...

• Financial tools: Such as derivatives, loans, stocks, debts ...

A very big limitation of traditional finance is centralization or centralization of power. DeFi is the solution for this.

## **2  What is DeFi?**



DeFi \(Decentralized Finance\) is a decentralized \(or open finance\) finance platform. In which, the organizations, markets or financial tools are decentralized management.

• DeFi utilizes the power of Blockchain as decentralization and transparency to create a model of open finance. In it, everyone can access and use it anywhere, anytime without being influenced by any centralized individual or organization.

## **3. What is the Difference between DeFi and CeFi?**

• The biggest difference between traditional finance and decentralized finance is Custodial.

• In traditional finance: There are intermediaries with centralized power in organizations, markets and financial tools.

• Meanwhile, DeFi leverages Blockchain's power of transparency and decentralization to eliminate these intermediaries.

Specifically:

• Government or banking \(CeFi\) will be replaced by decentralized blockchains.

• CeFi's assets will be replaced by tokens located in the Blockchain ecosystem. They are decentralized.

• DeFi's mission is to provide users with access to financial services anywhere, whenever as long as they have the Internet. DeFi's openness is shown here.  
  


